---
    title: A Brief History Of Time
    description: A famous physicist explains the fascinating facets of our universe in a digestible manner. 
    author: Stephen Hawking
    date: 05/07/24
    category: Book
    rating: 5
---

I've been decently interested in this book for a while now and finally had the opportunity to read
it after buying it used at a local book sale.

I went in blind, having no clue what is was about. In this book, Stephen Hawking, famous physicist,
attempts to explain the complexities of the universe to the curious layman.

Detailing the history of time, the chapters are placed chronologically, famous scientists and their
works building off each other and progressing through time as our theories of the universe seemingly
come closer to the truth.

There are so many different concepts throughout the books, which I found fascinating to learn about.
Although it may seem a deluge of information at first, Hawking's skill at simplifying advanced
concepts as well as providing many analogies does a swell job at conveying the ideas at hand. I have
taken college classes of physics, but some principles, such as Heisenberg's uncertainty principle,
or the relative progression of time based in the general theory of relativity, were put in such
understandable terms, that I was amazed a simple passage could better explain to me what other
teachers did over the course of weeks.

Naturally, some concepts were a bit hard to grasp, but just rereading the section a couple of times
really solidified my grasp of the subject. Of course, because of how multi-faceted the universe,
there is no dearth of information pouring on each page. I could see how this could seem intimidating
for some, but it's OK to not get everything. This book is meant to serve as an introduction to the
many principles governing our reality and the history of theories supplanting one another as humans
ever grow their collective understanding, so we think, of the world they live in. Thus, just getting
a taste of these topics still instills a sense of wonder, perhaps even a need to further research
what governs space-time or why our universe has not shrunk yet.

I easily devoured this book in a few days, a hibernating collection of ideas regarding physics being
awakened inside my mind and growing layers of new understanding, ideas floating around in my aware
consciousness, ready to translate the world in new ways to my self. I can see the world in new ways,
appreciate the work people have put into trying to understand the same place we all inhabit, and
enjoy expanding my knowledge of the space I inhabit.

So ye blah blah lots of science concepts that go into a good amount of detail, good for the curious
about everything.

Solid, enjoyable, a quick read, I'll give it a 5/5.
