---
    title: The Russo-Ukrainian War
    description: A detailed summary of historical contexts and current facts of the Russo-Ukrainian War.
    author: Serhii Plokhy
    date: 01/26/24
    category: Book
    rating: 4.5
---

This Eastern-European conflict has been going on for more than 2 years now, unfortunately. It
grieves me that there is such a loss of life in a cultural region that my ethnic backgrounds harks
backs to. While I may have a superficial and biased opinion on who I support, I felt my support was
lacking. For the Ukrainian people's sake, I felt it necessary to understand the historical context
to the situation and gain a deeper understanding of how and why this conflict emerged, to know what
led to the pain they are currently suffering through. I also wanted to know more personally, as
recently I've become more engrossed in reading about history.

Through a few chapters, we are guided through a brief yet detailed history of the founding of
Ukraine and Russia, both coming from the Kingdom of Kievan Rus. I had tried to read another book
about the history of Ukraine a while ago, but it proved to be very lengthy and a bit dry, not
entirely unexpected for a complete history - this on the other hand engaged me throughout its whole
length.

The author explains many reasons as to why many Russian elites lay claim to Ukraine and how these
myths started and evolved when the Kingdom of Muscovy broke away from Kievan Rus. Becoming cognizant
of these claims and their explanations, it in turn explained a great deal about the ethos of both
countries and how this has influenced their relationship through time.

But once we finish the first few chapters based in medieval and imperialist history, we are brought
into the retelling of the recent history of the countries in greater detail, taking up a majority of
the book, accurate to the title. I was aware of the Orange protests of 2004, the Maidan protests and
the subsequent invasion of 2014, but the chapters dedicated to these protests allowed me to really
get the bigger picture of what was going on. I am interested in the relationships between things and
how that all influences the greater story at hand - at this point, I was slowly integrating and
seeing the political, cultural, and religious facets that had driven where history had laid down its
path.

With this knowledge in mind, I was able to read along and better grasp what led to the invasion
of 2022. Extreme detail of the absolute malfeasance and deviousness contrasted with the bravery and
fortitude of the people; the war hit me harder than I had experienced before. Well-researched and
minutia-laden, I was grasping the dire situation at hand and was amazed at the amount of information
left out from the general public, although that is to be expected of any topic one dives into.

As I finished the book voraciously, in the back of my mind I wanted to read more, but at the
forefront, I realized that this book shouldn't keep going, it shouldn't have needed to be written in
the first place. But here we are, reality threading fate as it pleases, and while we are here, we
might as well try to make sense of the chaos of the world. Thus the author has condensed and
explained the chaos that is churning inside of Ukraine currently. The voices of the people need to
be heard everywhere, and in this particular instance in this slice of the world, the author has done
a great job expressing the happenings and the feelings of the Ukrainian people. It did a great job
introducing the history of both countries as it relates to one another and expounding on the
political rigamarole between them.

My faith in Ukraine has only been strengthened. A very good book, I will give it a 4.5 out of 5. I
recommend this book to anyone who wants a better grasp of what is still going on.
